---
layout: post
title: "BA186 SYSTEMS ANALYSIS AND DESIGN"	
remarks: BA 186 Syllabus
categories: Teaching
tags: 
- soft_engg
---


# BA 186 Syllabus

# COURSE DETAILS

BA186 SYSTEMS ANALYSIS AND DESIGN

Principles and methods for analyzing, designing and developing different types of business and management
systems.


## Course Description

This course on Systems Analysis and Design (BA186) teaches methods for analyzing, designing and assessing
different types of business and management systems. As an introductory Systems Analysis and Design (SA&D)
course for students in business- or management-related degree programs, it offers basic knowledge of computerbased business information systems (I.S.) and systems development practices. It is designed to give business
students an understanding of the impact of information systems in organizations as well as a better grasp of the
limits and constraints under which I.T. professionals (systems analysts, programmers, technicians, support staff)
work within organizations.


## Course Objectives

At the end of this course, students must be able to:

* Learn and understand the processes, methodologies and tools involved in systems development.
* Recognize which tool and which technique to use in a given phase of the systems development process.
* Be exposed to the actual work environment that will provide them the opportunity to apply the concepts and
principles of systems analysis and design.
* Understand the impact of SA&D activities to support the business objectives of organizations


## Course Methodology

This course shall employ a variety of methods such as but not limited to, lecture-presentation, discussions,
teamwork, video presentations, Q&A. Individual assignments shall be given and case studies shall be assigned so
as to ascertain the level of understanding of students. The use of a Learning Management System (LMS) shall be
observed all throughout the course duration. Specifically, e-Learning shall be employed to acquaint the students of this mode of learning. Submission of outputs shall be carried out through the LMS. Class interaction is encouraged
using the discussion/chat facilities of the course LMS.


## Course Learning Management System (LMS) and Official Class Directory

We will use google classroom. Details will be given on the first day of class.

You will not receive any email notices if you will not register in both the LMS and class directory sites. The LMS will
provide you access to course materials, assignments and other information relevant to our course.



# COURSE OUTLINE

Preliminaries and Creation of Project Teams

Chapter 1: The Systems Development Environment

Chapter 2: The Origins of Software

Presentation of Project Topics by Team Leaders/Introduction of Team Members

Chapter 3: Managing the Information Systems Project

Chapter 4: Identifying and Selecting Systems Development Projects

Chapter 5: Initiating and Planning Systems Development Projects

Chapter 6: Determining System Requirements
Fieldwork/Team Work/Lab Work

**Midterm Examination**

Chapter 7: Structuring System Process Requirements
Fieldwork/Team Work/Lab Work

Chapter 8: Structuring System Data Requirements
Fieldwork/Team Work/Lab Work

Chapter 9: Designing Databases
Fieldwork/Team Work/Lab Work

Chapter 10: Designing Forms and Reports
Fieldwork/Team Work/Lab Work

Chapter 11: Designing Interfaces and Dialogues
Fieldwork/Team Work/Lab Work

Chapter 12: Designing Distributed and Internet Systems

**Pre-Final Examination**

Team Presentation

Team Presentation

Team Presentation

Team Presentation

Submission of Final Deliverables

Final Examination*


Note: *Based on actual circumstances and assessing the progress of the class, the Instructor reserves the right to change/ collapse/interchange any of the topics as listed above.*


# COURSE REQUIREMENTS

The class shall observe the following course deliverables:

1. Written Exams (Midterm and Pre-Final)
2. Final Exam (for those who will not meet the average score of 60%, midterm and pre-final exams)
3. Quizzes (shall be given at the discretion of the Instructor)
4. Team Presentations and Deliverables


At the end of the semester, each student shall be evaluated based on the following items:


| Requirement |  Weight |
|--------------|-------------|
| Class Participation/Attendance/Individual Assignments | 10% |
| Midterm Exam and Pre-Final Exam | 30% |
| Group Tasks/Assignments | 10% |
| SA&D Deliverables | 40% | 
| Team Presentation | 10% |
| **Total** | **100%** |


# GRADE EQUIVALENTS

The scores of the students shall be matched using this grading scale:

| SCORE FINAL | GRADE |
|-------------|-------|
| 92 – 100 | 1.0 |
| 88 - below 92 | 1.25 |
| 85 - below 88 | 1.5 |
| 82 - below 85 | 1.75 |
| 78 - below 82 | 2.0 |
| 74 - below 78 | 2.25 |
| 70 - below 74 | 2.5 |
| 65 - below 70 | 2.75 |
| 60 - below 65 | 3.0 |
| below 60  | 5.0 | 


# COURSE POLICIES

## Project Teams

The class will be grouped into teams. Each team will have at most five (5) members. These teams will work on the
SA&D deliverables, group assignments and in completing all the other requirements of the course.

## Attendance

The class shall observe the University rules on attendance. This applies to sessions where physical presence is
required. Four (4) absences (excused/unexcused) are allowed all throughout the duration of the course. A student
who exceeds this maximum allowable absences shall be dropped from the class roll. The Instructor shall check
the attendance from time to time and this shall be done on a random basis.

## Submission of Requirements

Students are expected to demonstrate utmost diligence in the submission of course requirements. For every day
of delay (includes weekends and holidays), five (5) points shall be deducted from the overall score awarded to any
work/task. Time management should be observed by students so as to ensure prompt and quality submission of
the course requirements.

## Code of Ethics

The highest level of ethical standards must be observed by each and every class member. Being admitted into the
program is an accomplishment that should not be tarnished with any pigment of fraud, deceit and distrust. The
course will be delivered under the clear cloud of mutual trust and respect.

## Peer Evaluation

Each member of the team will accomplish an online evaluation form at the end of the course. This evaluation form
will capture each member’s assessment of the performance of his/her team members. A rating of 1 shall be given
to team members whose performance is Very Poor, 3 for Average performance and 5 for those who have
Excellent performance. For each missing point, two (2) points shall be deducted from the team score and the
student shall receive the resulting score (Illustration: if team score is 90 and peer evaluation rating of student A is 3,
student A will receive a score of 86). Thus, it is important that the peer evaluation will be done with utmost care
and consideration of what really was delivered and performed by each member of the team.

## Group Tasks/Assignments

The course will require groups/teams to work on various tasks and assignments. These group tasks/assignments
shall be assigned to the teams at a particular time and submission deadlines shall be specified by the Instructor for each of the tasks/assignments. Papers related to the this team work must be uploaded into the LMS. The
evaluation of papers will follow these metrics:

| RUBRIC | % |
|-------|----|
| Organization and Logic | 30% |
| Depth of Analysis | 40% |
| Presentation/Delivery of Ideas | 20% | 
| Overall Impact of Paper | 10% |


## Other Policies

1. Complaints regarding exam results shall be entertained only within a period of one week after the examination
papers are returned. No complaints shall be entertained after this period. Students must use a pen or ballpen
when taking any examination, otherwise, no complaints whatsoever regarding the examination shall be
accepted.
2. The specific guidelines that shall govern the other course requirements (team presentations and deliverables)
shall be announced in the class prior to the implementation of said course requirements. Each day of delay
(including Saturdays and Sundays) shall be penalized by deducting 5 points from whatever score earned by a
student/team for a specific requirement.
3. Students who will get an average score of 60% or higher shall be exempted from taking the Final Exam. A
student who will miss one of the exams (i.e. midterm or pre-final) shall receive 80% of the score of the other
exam taken by the student. If he/she will miss both exams, the student will take a Completion Exam and the
Final Exam (Thursday, Oct 10). Those who will take the Completion and Final Exam must expect a set of more
difficult questions.
4. Teams are expected to submit ALL deliverables. If one item is missing, all team members shall automatically
receive a grade of INC. For completing said requirements, item #3 above shall be applied in the computation
of scores.


# COURSE REFERENCES

* Modern Systems Analysis and Design, 6th edition. Jeffrey A. Hoffer, Joey F. George, and Joseph S. Valacich,2011.
* Systems Analysis and Design. Kenneth E. Kendall and Julie E. Kendall, 6th edition.