---
layout: post
title: "PHP Laravel"	
remarks: "intro"
categories: Skills
tags: 
- web development
---

# Laravel Programming

## Motivation 

I am studying a bit of Laravel for a Proof of Concept (PoC) project for UPD ComSci and the Insurance Commission. 

I want to have the web artisan experience and see how that can feed into the development for other government offices who are currently heavily doing PHP development. 

## Outcomes

I seek to finish a complete project while understanding the concepts and workflow for Laravel development. 

## Characteristics

I want to explore Laravel. I want to imagine our simple PoC sofware being implemented in it. I want an idea on how to move forward using it just in case. 


## Context

This is in the context of me studying in the Software Engineering Field. I want to learn useful and economically valuable skills that I can use to bless others. 



## Steps

### Laravel Installation 
Google a tutorial for install laravel to a specific OS version you are using and install.  Try to stay away from XAMPP-based installations, as deployment with that may be problematic. Homestead seems like a non-trivial but recommended solution. Straight LAMPP install seems easiest. 

### Trying a Udemy Project


    sudo composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel cms2 "5.2.*"

    sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/www/html/myproject



Add the following in the right part of the Vagrantfile. Customize paths as necessary.

    config.vm.synced_folder "C:/Users/roycan/laravel-apps", "/home/vagrant/code", type: "rsync"

then 

    vagrant reload 





