---
layout: post
title: "My PhD Hunt  (day 2)"	
remarks: "diary-ish"
tags: 
- PhD
- personal
---


# My PhD Hunt  (day 2)

I think I'm done looking at the aggregated PhD scholarships for Computer Science. Only 1 seriously popped up for me. *University of Technology Sidney* (UTS).

What do I need to send an email?
* updated CV
* key questions
    * international applications
    * funding eligibility
* *plan of research

Note on the plan of research. This is going for what I want. Then I will go through my *weak-ties* and see where that brings me. Of course I will be nice and courteous and helpful to others when I can.  :) 

Plan A would be to apply somewhere with a grind schedule and just stick with the program. Applying myself to what the boss or supervisor says. I rejected it because it didn't have the growth environment that I wanted. 

Plan B was to stick to UP. That is now out of the question, due to the choices I made to pursue things that were more important to me and the environment of confusion that I was in with regard to publishing papers in a topic that I didn't feel for. I like the technique. But there weren't support for that in the scale that I needed. I loved the environment though.

Plan C, for Canseco.... :D
Plan is going for what I really want. I might not know how to get there right now. That's fine. I know what I want, what I love, what I feel passionate about. The Lord is giving me ideas for heaven as to what I could do about it. At every corner, I am being questioned if I really want it. I do really want it. I am it. I resonate purpose with it. I live more strongly doing it. 

Plan C is **End-User Development** (EUD)

### Classification of EUD
* Sw-engineering
* Programming Languages
* Human-computer Interaction
* Empirical Studies

### EUD related Keywords
* End-user software engineering
* End-user programming


There are two basic **reasons** why EUD has become popular.
1.  One is because organizations are facing delays on projects and using EUD can effectively cut the time of completion on a project. 
2. The second reason is that software tools are more powerful and easier to use now more than ever.

Lessons learned from EUD solutions can significantly influence 
* the software life cycles for commercial software products, 
* in-house intranet/extranet developments and 
* enterprise application deployments.



## London PhD Opportunity
There's an opportunity for a PhD in Machine Learning for Automated Software Engineering in London, **Queen Mary University of London**, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science. 

I think I can do this. But it's a B goal, not a C goal. I don't see how mastering it helps my country after. It's cool, but I don't feel passion for it.

There's a better place in London: **University of Cambridge**. The Department of Computer Science and Technology there is part of the EUSES Consortium. 




## Target advisers:

* [Margaret Burnett](http://eecs.oregonstate.edu/people/burnett-margaret)
* [Christopher Scaffidi](http://eecs.oregonstate.edu/people/scaffidi-christopher)

However they are from the US and I am trying to avoid the US at the moment.

I have been looking at other possible advisers. The weakness is that their Universities are actually lower in rank than UP. However, I am quite confident that their software engineering lab is stronger than UPD's currently. hehehe



## Summary

In summary, I am currently find the following Universities very interesting:

1. *University of Technology Sidney* (UTS)
2. **Queen Mary University of London**
3. **University of Cambridge**
4. Oregon State Univtersity