---
layout: post
title: "To PhD Abroad I Go"
date: 2018-07-07
remarks: "diary-ish"
categories: Research
tags: 
- PhD
- personal
---



I'm looking for my PhD abroad. 
I now am confident in what I can offer and do. More importantly, I think I get how much I don't know and can't yet do. 
I believe in the Lord and I know he has plans for me. I feel it's scary leaving the only life I've known for at least a couple of years. Pero
kaya namin ni Lord 'to. 
I am learning new skills too. 
My decision to go Software Engineering has tuned my senses to the various ways that I am to manage software development. I know I'm learning important things from being with everyone here at UP. I want to make those count. There's not so many things that I find important in life, but in those things, I'll fight to make each day count.  

That said, by preparing some things from my end, I'll be able to take the most advantage of the opportunities before me. Also, by taking care of my body, I'll be able to perform at my peak. I've seen the faculty at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. They look fit. It is possible. It is possible for me too. 

Right now, I'm doing a meeting with the Lord. Ako na sa minutes... hehehe.  We're looking for the Universities and Professors to get in touch with.

1. filter universities
2. rank universities
3. send informal inquiries
4. send formal application
5. packup and go

To this end, I plan to populate a gdoc that I can share to family and friends as I go through this journey.

This ends day 1 of the search. There's hope and some sort of a plan.  :)